---
layout: post
title: Cheems
subtitle: A humble Eulogy
cover-img:
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/cheems.jpg
share-img:
tags: [memes, cheems]
---

One of the mechanisms of communication that was highly incentivized by the creation of the internet, is the meme. The word meme was coined by Richard Dawkins, and it is used to denote a unit of cultural information. In practical terms, it is used in the form of images with characters (or sometimes ideas) that we recognize, usually with a pun, or where the use of an unexpected character would make it funny. This phenomenon has become a big channel of communication, specially among people who are millennials or younger. It is a light hearted way of sharing opinions, experiences, emotions, very often things which are collective. Memes have narrated a big part of the recent world history. They are also used for expressing political ideas. One of the characteristics of memes is that there is always something implied, that you need to connect the dots. People have been able to abstract certain memes to a point where there are multiple layers you need to figure out in order to understand the intention of the author. It has also happened that in some cases, the intention of the author is impossible to decipher. Memes are a very flexible form of communication in general.

The explosion of memes has happened within the span of two decades. I have been able to witness the evolution of memes, from troll face to I am Kenough memes. Some characters have raised to the very top, to only fall to the place they started at. Others have stayed with us for years and years. We have seen some of the people or beings behind these characters move on with their life, some of them have even passed away. Yesterday one of the most beloved beings behind of the characters has ceased existing. Balltze was a Shiba Inu dog that with one picture became Cheems, a dog that had a speech problem that made him use the wrong letters sometimes in some words. He usually showed up in memes when people needed to represent dysfunctional things, or something silly or misunderstood, or stuff like that. In a certain way, he also became a character with which we empathized in our less good aspects. He became a favorite of many of us, for many years. We started following the dog behind the photo, following his life, happy to see this dog enjoy his life. Until life was not as enjoyable as before anymore. He became sick, his health deteriorated and the hospital visits became more usual. He’s finally found some rest. He’s now in dog heaven eating all the cheemsburgers he wants.

