---
layout: post
title: A refreshing movie
subtitle: 
cover-img: 
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/barbie.png
share-img:
tags: [barbie, movie]
---

I have to say, it’s been a while since I went to the cinema and I liked the movie as much as I did with this one. There are many aspects of the movie that I really liked, and a few that I think could have been worked out better. First: the pace and tone of the movie were perfect. Most of the movie is a sequence of quick jokes, all very sharp and funny. This is  great because it happens both when the characters are in a god or in a bad mood, so it doesn’t feel dragged out by the les happy moments. Towards the end the pace changes for a bit when it gets emotional, but that was completely the right choice, given that it was the most important moment of the movie (when Barbie talks to Ruth for the second time). This made the movie feel light and never boring. 

The two main characters were very solid, both on the script and the actors side. Both had interestingly developed conflicts that were resolved beautifully, each on their own way. The acting was really good imo, specially Ryan who got a bit of a more unhinged character. Their stories are separate but complementary, tied together perfectly as the plot moves forward. Some of the other characters, I found them not so good. Weird Barbie was kind of a plot resource that could have been explored better, and so were the mom and daughter. Their conflicts was the root of the problem, and it got very little attention. These two characters are very lacking on their development. Basically, the mom a said “let’s help Barbie” and that basically fixed their relationship. Not a very solid point there. I’ll get back to this in a bit.

In terms of the artistic choices, I found the visuals stunning. The choices of colors and framing of each scene were wonderful. The uncountable number of references to other films (in particular the beginning, referencing 2001 a space odyssey) were amazing. As for the music, I found that it was solid, but not up to the level of the visuals. Many of the choices felt like standard plastic music from these days, but I guess given the nature of the concept, it worked. The Ken songs were strong in my opinion, in particular the one that follows the war of the Kens, with the choreography with all of them dressed in black. That whole section was absolutely outstanding. The visuals formed by the geometric formations were amazing.

Now, to the most important part: the concept and the story. I think the whole concept of the Barbie world and the real world was very smart and well thought out. It had a lot of internal coherence and it just made sense (modulo suspension of disbelief). The idea of the events of one world interacting with another one always makes room for a good plot. This driving force was a solid way to kick start the movie, get things motion. Once they get to the real world, it becomes really interesting, because they start gathering pieces of information that are totally alien to them, and that changes their perspectives in a diametrically opposed way. It basically creates two observers of our world that highlight the two opposite extremes of the dynamics of gender in our world in a pretty exaggerated and obvious way. All of it is real. Ken’s attitude is a direct call out to macho culture (and not a generalized attack to men), and the realization of Barbie is a highlight to all the struggles endured by women under our current status quo. Something that I would have liked seeing more emphasized, I how incredibly ruthless the world is to moms. I know they mention it a bit, but the director is a mom, the two supporting characters are a mom and a daughter and Ruth mentions that she made Barbie for her daughter. I have a belief that the concept of the movie IS indeed something that came out of the struggles of motherhood. The progress that feminist movements have achieved have reflected big independence and rights changes for women, but societal expectations towards mothers still need to catch up to that. A woman can have a job and be independent, but they are still expected to handle and manage the household and the kids. I believe that capitalism has capitalized on the independence of women in a way to create a bigger labor force without creating optimal conditions for mother to have a comfortable motherhood, at least in the U.S. I would have liked seeing a bit more of this in the movie. 

Now, getting back to the plot, I found the resolution of the conflict particularly beautiful: the Barbie’s return to their land and regain the power, but with a new understanding of the struggles of the Ken. This is incredibly important, because it says that the path to harmony is not one nor the other way, but something in the middle, where everyone’s opinions are heard. They do not with to have a kingdom of women for women, but they acknowledge that the Kens deserve to be heard and to have spaces. This is made explicit in many ways, but one of the most meaningful ones is when Barbie apologizes to Ken for taking him for granted and never really hearing what he needed. One can easily draw parallels here with our reality and understand that feminism is not the supremacy of women over men, but understand that most of us are affected by patriarchy in one way or another (see the suicide rates of men for instance vs women), and that we must work together to achieve a more fair world. It is interesting too that the movie makes very mild fun of capitalism and the consumption culture, but doesn’t go into details of how that should be addressed. It seems that for the logics of the movie, having a Mattel board composed of women would have been okay, and there is no further question of the economic models. I believe many feminist movements are deeply anti capitalist, but I also understand that passing such message in a movie like this could be complicated.

TLDR: I loved it, it is a movie of funny and quick jokes, with a compelling story, decent characters, a huge self awareness, and an artistic level that you don’t usually see in these blockbusters.
