---
layout: post
title: Bluey
subtitle: Finally a good show for parents
cover-img: 
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/bluey.png
share-img:
tags: [bluey, education, kids, parenting]
---


A lot of people keep talking about Bluey and how good of a show it is, so I decided to give it a try. For those who don't know it, it's an Australian kids show about a family of dogs, where Bluey is the oldest of the kids (about 6 years old) and Bingo the youngest (about 4 years old).

On the surface it is a typical kids show with the typical kids situations. What really stands out is the depiction of the parents. They are essentially milenial parents who don't know what they're doing, but they're trying their best. They're often shown vulnerable, overwhelmed and confused. They also make mistakes, and they try to own them and make something out of them. They're also shown exhausted, like most parents are. It's the most real thing I've ever seen in this kind of shows. But this is not what makes it really special. What does, is that it is able to portray some really touchy subjects with such elegance and grace. Subjects such as loss, love, grieve, frustration, they're all shown in beautifully crafted settings that can go over a small kids head, or they can leave little seeds in them so they start understanding how these things work, depending on their development. But they're also crafted in a way that is able to touch the parents hearts. When you've gone through the exhaustion of raising a little kid, and you see your experience painted in such a loving way, it can create a sense of reward, of pride on what you've done. It makes you feel that your struggle is more normal than you ever thought, and that it is worth it. Bluey's parents make you say "I'm doing okay" and bring you a sense of comfort. They need a hug, but they also give you a hug. I specially recommended the episodes "onesies", "baby race", "camping" and "sleepy time", the last one being a literal work of art. 

Also, it's not unbearable like cocomelon, huge advantage there.