---
layout: post
title: Teaching yourself
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/math.jpg
thumbnail-img: 
share-img:
tags: [knowledge, teaching] 
---

During my life I’ve had to teach myself a variety of subjects and skills. The PhD is basically that on steroids. Here are some tips that I believe are some of the key components that have lead to the most successful learning experiences for me. Of course these are not going to work for everyone, and they won’t magically overcome a lack of willpower, but they can help streamline the learning experience a bit better.

1. Choose and scope your subject. Research it without spending too much time on the details. Look at Wikipedia, YouTube, pdfs, anything that seems remotely interesting and informative. The idea is to gain a high level vision of the subject, what are the main concepts and components, what are the prerequisites for each of them, etc. Think of a textbook on the subject: you should not start by reading page 0 and going all the way through the end linearly. You should grab the book, read the intro, look at the contents table, skim the book, look at the graphs, the titles, the figures, read any paragraph that seems interesting, read the motivations for each chapter. Most of the time when you are going to learn something, it is really important to know why you need to learn that something. If you’re learning a language, you need to understand its structure, it’s key components, see how similar it is to your native language, etc. This way, when you go into an active learning mode, you’ll have an idea of why each of the concepts is important, how does it fit within the big picture, etc.

2. If you went through the previous step successfully, you need to do a minimal amount of planning to your learning. First, you need to have some notion of the level of mastery of the skill you’re trying to acquire. Do you want to be an absolute master? Or just competent? This is very important because it will determine your learning objectives. Again, based on the first point, you should have at least a vague idea of what you should expect yourself to be able to do in order to say you have achieved the level of proficiency you want. Maybe you want to play the drums like Ringo, so there is a clear thing you need to be able to do to say you achieved your goal: play the Ringo drum parts. Sometimes there is not a very clear objective but any notion will help.

3. One you’ve gone through steps 1 and 2, you need to do a little bit more planning. At this point it may sound like a lot of planning but trust me, we’re talking about maybe 5 minutes in total. In this third stage, I recommend setting short term goals for yourself based on your investigations of the skill. I normally recommend having one, maybe two milestones that you are actively working on at all times. I want to learn French, mr first milestone will be being able to introduce myself and ask for directions. Once I complete this milestone I’ll set the next one and work on it. This step is crucial in my opinion, as it will focus your attention on goals that are actually productive towards your main goal. It will also keep you engaged because it will basically force you into seeing yourself progress, and you don’t have to wait an indefinite amount of time to see results. It’s not a good idea to set too many milestones at the beginning because when you’re new to the subject, you don’t have a clear idea of how the path looks like too far ahead. Focus on what’s immediately in front of you.

4. Get feedback from how you’re doing. If you can get anyone with a higher level of mastery than you to judge your performance on your milestones, you’ll solidify your learning and you’ll be able to fix any mistakes and bad habits that you pick up without noticing. Once you get better you’ll possibly be able to give yourself feedback, but not at the beginning (for instance by recording yourself speaking the language or playing the instrument). You should be absolutely open to criticism (as long as it’s well intentioned). With this you can also adjust your milestones and objectives if you think they’re unreachable for you at the moment, you can get validation for that.

5. Be patient with yourself and let go of expectations of quick success. Your first attempts at something new are most likely going to suck. Your pronunciation will be bad, your playing will be bad, your drawing will be bad, your code will be bad. And that’s okay. We are in a world where we are bombarded with perfectionism and heavily filtered and curated content. You’re only shown the success and end results, but not the process. Your favorite artist sucked at some point, but they put in the effort to get better. They set goals and got to them. Practice the note until it’s right. Be forgiving and don’t be ashamed to show people your not so good work. People want you to get better, people don’t want to laugh at you. If you’re interested in something I’m good at, I’ll be happy to give feedback. But again, you need to let your expectations go, or you’ll give up in no time.
